In this video, I will introduce you to a coding concept called List Compress spelled like this list
comprehension.
Now I prefer to name these as single line for loops because that's what they really are.
They're a way to pack an entire for loop into one line of code.
So this is what you can think about when you're writing and interpreting list comprehension.
But this is the formal Python name for some reason.
Okay.
So let me begin by writing out a multi-line for loop.
So for I in range ten.
And let's just print out I squared okay.
So nothing new here you learned about for loops in a previous video we have this looping index.
And then we have the reserved keyword in.
And here I'm using this range iterator.
And then the variable I or the value of I is increasing in every iteration.
And yeah, I'm just explaining stuff you already know.
So the question now is, how can we get this for loop to be in one line of code?
Now we can do something like this for I.
And actually let me just copy and paste this.
We can do something like this.
So this is technically one line of code.
And sometimes this is fine to write.
But there is a more elegant solution and that is using list comprehension.
So to use list comprehension first of all we start with a list.
So you can tell this is a list because of the empty or because of the square brackets.
And now inside I'm going to write print I squared for I in range ten.
Okay.
So notice that all of the elements that are present in this for loop are also present in this list comprehension
statement.
But the order is slightly different.
So here I have the statement inside the body of the for loop, and here I have the for loop statement.
So now when I run this line of code I get all of these results, which is yeah I squared for I in numbers
from 0 to 9.
And then here I get this funny thing here.
No no no no no no no.
So what is going on here.
Why do we get an entire list of nuns?
I'm actually going to talk more about this later on.
I want to show some more examples first.
So let me just start by getting rid of this print symbol.
And now we have a list that contains all of these elements for um yeah.
For, for I squared for from zero up to nine.
So this was going from a multi-line for loop to a list comprehension statement.
Now what I'm going to do is start with a list comprehension.
And then I will ask you to pause the video and translate that list comprehension back into a multi-line
for loop.
So let's begin.
So we start with our list like this.
And I will write out I squared minus I to the power of one half.
And this whole thing here that should be one I this whole thing is equivalent to the square root.
Right.
So the square root of a number is the same thing as raising that number to the power of one half for
I in range 1010 if I is greater than five okay, so this looks slightly different from the list comprehension
that I wrote here.
So there's some new concepts in here.
What I would like you to do is pause the video.
Actually let me run this first so we can see what the output is.
So now pause the video and see if you can translate this list comprehension into a for loop that looks
something like this.
Okay.
And now I am going to walk through that solution.
Okay, so let's start off by writing for I in range ten.
And now we want to have uh I squared minus I to the power of one half.
So that's this part.
But then we also have this if statement here.
And you can also see you know maybe it's hard to figure out what I squared minus I to the square root
of I.
But certainly these are relatively large numbers.
So this is not you know one if this were one.
Well also at zero that's the easiest to calculate.
So when I is zero this is just zero.
And when I is one then this is also zero.
Because one squared minus the square root of one is zero.
And we don't see these here.
So clearly this if statement is being applied inside this for loop.
So if I is greater than five then we write this out okay.
And now when I run this code, I don't get any error messages, I don't get any warning messages, but
I also don't see anything being printed out.
But here we have a list with these elements so we can write print like this.
And that's fine.
Then these elements match these values over here.
But this is actually not creating a list.
This created a list.
That's why it's called list comprehension.
Here there's no list.
So we need to actually create a list here.
And how do we do that.
I'm going to initialize an empty list.
So I'm just going to call this n.
And yeah I initialize this to be an empty list.
And now I'm going to use a method on list that I have described in a previous video called append.
So it's like this dot append and then like this in parentheses.
So then let's see.
Now I will print out append okay.
So now finally we get the same result that we got up here.
So list comprehension here gave us what we needed in one line of code.
And here it takes one, two, three, four lines of code.
Now on the one hand, you know, minimizing the number of lines of code is not necessarily the primary
goal of coding.
Right?
The primary goal of coding is to get things done using code.
So if you need to use four lines, or if you find it better to use four lines, then use four lines,
especially when you are just getting started with Python, then this is probably easier to write, easier
to read, easier to understand what's going on compared to list comprehension.
But you know, it is a fact that lots of people coding in Python use list comprehension.
You will see list comprehension all over the place, so it's good to get used to reading list comprehension
and writing code that includes list comprehension.
Okay, I want to run through a few more examples of list comprehension.
And then I will describe the rule that I believe you will be learning implicitly by seeing these examples.
Okay, so so far all the examples that I used for list comprehension involved numbers and in particular
counting integers using the range iterator function.
Okay.
What I'm going to show you now is that you can also use list comprehension in or using text.
So here I will write out some text.
Hello my name is Mike.
So here we go.
We have some text.
These are individual strings that are inside a list.
And now what I'm going to do is actually let me write this out in code first.
So I will say for word in text and then I'm just going to print the word.
So far nothing very fancy.
And let's say I wanted to get the first letter of each of these elements.
So here I can use indexing.
And then I get this is from hello, my name is Mike okay.
So now the goal is going to be to reproduce this result this for loop using list comprehension.
So let's start off by writing word for word in text okay.
So this is not that interesting because this is literally just reproducing the list that I already have
here okay.
And instead we just want to grab the first letter okay.
So now we have a new list that is created from this list.
And it just contains the first letter of each of those little strings.
Okay.
Very nice.
Now what if we wanted to put all of these into one string.
Right.
So right now this is a list with multiple independent strings in each element of the list.
But let's say we want to create a word which would be pronounced like Eminem or something.
Uh, so, uh, what we can do here is something like this.
We can use join.
So here's this syntax looks a little bit weird, but here I'm creating a string with with just a space
and then dot.
So we're calling a method on a string object.
And then the method or the function is called join.
And then in the function join I'm inputting a list.
And this gives me a string where all of the elements of this list are concatenated and separated according
to this whatever is in here.
So if we don't want any spaces between them, then we just have this be quotes with no space, nothing
in between.
Let's say we want to connect them by a dash.
Maybe you are creating a CSV file, a comma separated values file.
Then you might do something like this and so on.
Okay so now you've seen several examples of list comprehension.
What I want to do now is just write out what the the syntax of list comprehension.
So we have the expression for variable.
And I'm going to put these in parentheses in iterator.
So the basic formulation of a list comprehension looks like this.
So square brackets for a list.
And then we have the expression.
So here the expression is the first element of the word.
Here the expression was this mathematical equation over here for that's the reserved keyword.
And then this is a variable that we are creating.
So here it's word and here it was I and so on.
And then we have the iterator.
And here the iterator is this list.
Here the iterator is this range function okay.
So this is the basic syntax.
And then you can add more things to it.
You can make it a little bit more complicated, as I showed you in this example, by adding a conditional.
So we can add a conditional in here, something that would be evaluated for true or false for each variable
in these iterators.
The final thing that I want to discuss in this video is getting back to this initial list comprehension
example here.
So here we see a list.
And here I got a bunch of nuns.
You remember that there were nuns not nun but n o n e.
Okay, so here we see the outcome that comes from print the outcome of this mathematical expression.
And then here we have a list of nuns.
Now why is this a list of nuns.
Well what's actually happening here is that the output of the print function is nun.
So print.
Hi.
The function print gives an action, so it prints something to the to the window over here, but it
doesn't actually give an output.
So if I say output equals print.
Now what is the output of the print function.
It doesn't actually have an output.
So the output is none.
So when I'm running this code nothing happens.
Nothing prints out because there is no output from the print function.
And that is why we get all of these nuns.
These nuns are actually the outputs of this print function.
So a little bit confusing, but I hope you see why we get this list of numbers printed out and why we
get this list of nuns over here.
Okay, so that was list comprehension.
If list comprehension feels a little difficult and overwhelming, then that's completely natural.
That's how everyone experiences list comprehension.
But I promise with some practice you will get the hang of it.